docs(tutorial): add k8s fluentbit observability tutorial (#1680)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/k8s-fluentbit-observability/index.mdx

        Daemon                off
        Parsers_File          custom_parsers.conf
        HTTP_Server           on
        HTTP_Listen           0.0.0.0
        HTTP_PORT             2020
```

- `Flush 1`: Collects logs every second.
- `Log_level info`: Displays informational logs in the Fluent Bit pods.
- `Daemon off`: Run Fluent Bit as the foreground process in its pods.
- `Parsers_File custom_parsers.conf`: Loads additional log parsers that we will define later on.
- `HTTP_Server on`: Enables Fluent Bit's built-in HTTP server.
- `HTTP_Listen 0.0.0.0`: Listen on all interfaces exposed by your pod.
- `HTTP_PORT 2020`: Listen to port 2020.

<Message type="note">
    Fluent Bit's HTTP server needs to be enabled in order to communicate with your Cockpit.
</Message>

## Configuring observability inputs

We will configure Fluent Bit to retrieve the metrics (CPU, memory, disk usage...) from your Kubernetes nodes and the applicative logs from your running pods.

In the `values.yaml` file, create a new section `config.inputs`:

```yaml
  inputs: |
    [INPUT]
        Name                  node_exporter_metrics
        Tag                   node_metrics

>         Scrape_interval       2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Scrape_interval       60
```

        Tls.verify            on
        Label_map_path        /fluent-bit/etc/labelmap.json
        Auto_kubernetes_labels on
        Http_user             nologin
        Http_passwd           <...>
```

3. Fill in the blanks as follows:
-  `Host` from the first subsection: paste your Metrics API URL defined in the **API and Tokens tab** section from the Cockpit. Remove the `https://` protocol.
- `Header`: Next to `Bearer`, paste the token generated in the previous step.
- `Host` from the second subsection: paste your Logs API URL defined in the **API and Tokens tab** section from the Cockpit. Remove the `https://` protocol.
- `Http_passwd`: paste the token generated in the previous step.

In the first subsection, the `prometheus_remote_write` plugin is used to send metrics to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) server of your Cockpit using the remote write protocol.
In the second subsection, the `loki` plugin is used to send logs to the [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/) server of your Cockpit, using the field mapping from `labelmap.json` defined above.

## Installing Fluent Bit

Run the following command in the same directory as your `values.yaml` file:

```

> helm upgrade --install fluent-bit fluent/fluent-bit -f .\values.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm upgrade --install fluent-bit fluent/fluent-bit -f ./values.yaml
```

```

Fluent Bit has been installed in your Kapsule cluster. You should see a `DeamonSet` named `fluent-bit` with running pods on all of your nodes.

## Visualizing Kapsule logs and metrics

Logs and metrics from your Kubernetes cluster can now be found in your Cockpit's dashboard

### Exploring metrics

Grafana has a built-in dashboard for visualizing node metrics.
1. Go to **Dashboards** in your Grafana instance
2. Click **New**, **Folder** and name it `Kapsule`
3. Click **New**, **Import** and paste the following URL in the **Import via grafana.com** field:
    ```

>     https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/405-node-exporter-server-metrics/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/1860-node-exporter-full/
```

        Daemon                off
        Parsers_File          custom_parsers.conf
        HTTP_Server           on
        HTTP_Listen           0.0.0.0
        HTTP_PORT             2020
```

- `Flush 1`: Collects logs every second.
- `Log_level info`: Displays informational logs in the Fluent Bit pods.
- `Daemon off`: Run Fluent Bit as the foreground process in its pods.
- `Parsers_File custom_parsers.conf`: Loads additional log parsers that we will define later on.
- `HTTP_Server on`: Enables Fluent Bit's built-in HTTP server.
- `HTTP_Listen 0.0.0.0`: Listen on all interfaces exposed by your pod.
- `HTTP_PORT 2020`: Listen to port 2020.

<Message type="note">
    Fluent Bit's HTTP server needs to be enabled in order to communicate with your Cockpit.
</Message>

## Configuring observability inputs

We will configure Fluent Bit to retrieve the metrics (CPU, memory, disk usage...) from your Kubernetes nodes and the applicative logs from your running pods.

In the `values.yaml` file, create a new section `config.inputs`:

```yaml
  inputs: |
    [INPUT]
        Name                  node_exporter_metrics
        Tag                   node_metrics

>         Scrape_interval       2

Reviewer 2: Can you update the scrape_interval to be `60s` ? 
A `2s` scrape interval will increase the cost a lot on Cockpit.
Having it to `60s` divide the price by 30.

Define a section named `config.extraFiles.'labelmap.json'`:

```yaml
  extraFiles:
    labelmap.json: |
      {
        "kubernetes": {
        "container_name": "container",
        "host": "node",
        "labels": {
          "app": "app",
          "release": "release"
        },
        "namespace_name": "namespace",
        "pod_name": "instance"
        },
        "stream": "stream"
      }
```

This defines a map for various Kubernetes labels and metadata to specific Fluent Bit field names in order to parse and structure the logs.

## Configuring observability outputs

The last step in the Fluent Bit configuration is to define where the logs and metrics will be pushed.

First, generate a Cockpit token:
1. Go to your Cockpit in the **API and Tokens tab**.
2. Navigate to the **Token section** and click on **Generate a token**.
3. Choose both Push permissions for metrics and logs.

<Lightbox src="scaleway-cockpit-token-permissions.webp" alt="" />

> In the `values.yaml` file, create a section named `config.outputs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a section named `config.outputs` in the `values.yaml` file:
```

        Port                  443
        Tls                   on
        Tls.verify            on
        Label_map_path        /fluent-bit/etc/labelmap.json
        Auto_kubernetes_labels on
        Http_user             nologin
        Http_passwd           <...>
```

Fill the blanks as follows:
1. `Host` from the first subsection: paste your Metrics API URL defined in the **API and Tokens tab** section from the Cockpit. Remove the `https://` protocol.
2. `Header`: Next to `Bearer`, paste the token generated in the previous step.
3. `Host` from the second subsection: paste your Logs API URL defined in the **API and Tokens tab** section from the Cockpit. Remove the `https://` protocol.
4. `Http_passwd`: paste the token generated in the previous step.

In the first subsection, the `prometheus_remote_write` plugin is used to send metrics to the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) server of your Cockpit using the remote write protocol.
In the second subsection, the `loki` plugin is used to send logs to the [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/) server of your Cockpit, using the field mapping from `labelmap.json` defined above.

## Installing Fluent Bit

> In the same directory as your `values.yaml` file, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command in the same directory as your `values.yaml` file:
```

```
helm upgrade --install fluent-bit fluent/fluent-bit -f .\values.yaml
```

Fluent Bit has been installed in your Kapsule cluster. You should see a `DeamonSet` named `fluent-bit` with running pods on all of your nodes.

## Visualizing Kapsule logs and metrics

Logs and metrics from your Kubernetes cluster can now be found in your Cockpit's dashboard

### Exploring metrics

Grafana has a built-in dashboard for visualizing node metrics.
1. Go to **Dashboards** in your Grafana instance

> 2. Click on **New**, **Folder** and name it `Kapsule`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click **New**, **Folder** and name it `Kapsule`
```

> 3. Click on **New**, **Import** and paste the following URL in the **Import via grafana.com** field:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Click **New**, **Import** and paste the following URL in the **Import via grafana.com** field:
```

    ```

>     https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/405-node-exporter-server-metrics/

Reviewer 2: I think this dashboard `https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/1860-node-exporter-full/` is better, what do you think ? The one you provided is from 2018 and this one is up to date. (And nicer but it's a matter of taste)

    ```

> 4. After clicking **Load** you can access the new dashboard named **Node Exporter Server Metrics**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Click **Load** to access the new dashboard named **Node Exporter Server Metrics**.
```
